about this and other developments in
Israel's war on Gaza he's a professor of
public policy at hammad Khalifa
University here in Qatar thank you
Sultan for joining us again we hear
again condemnation from the US
Administration outraged they expressed
over the killing of this activist in the
occupied West Bank but that doesn't seem
to be stopping the Israelis or even U
you know seeing them reduce this the
intensity of their attacks in Gaza
another attack today on a school in
theat refugee camp what does that
suggest you about the the intentions of
the Israeli government here well the
intentions have always been clear from
the very beginning it's killing and
displacement if they're unable to kill
the Palestinians then they'd like to see
them out of uh Palestine but uh what the
issue here really is the United States
should worry about its own interest and
its own interest now is becoming under
threat in the sense that they are
becoming really exposed in their
collusion with the Israelis in these war
crimes the IC the icj are not sleep
they're taking time they're considering
the cases South Africa has just come out
again insisting that they will pursue
the case until a verdict is made and it
is very clear that any nation is seen to
support this kind of uh uh atrocities is
liable now people on the ground in Gaza
should really focus on Gathering the
evidence that these missiles these
Rockets are us made and and this will
probably be one of the areas where the
US policy makers will suddenly take a a
pause and rethink it's not just about
protecting Israel politically they have
to start thinking about protecting
themselves now as we move into this 11th
month it's almost a year now of uh
incredible infringement of international
humanitarian law yeah in this latest
attack on uh that un School in the nerat
refugee camp the Israelis claimed they
were targeting a Hamas command uh Center
in in the camp at that school which has
been you know the claim they always use
when targeting these areas that are
populated by civilians which doesn't
excuse whether or not they're targeting
Hamas control center the fact remains
that civilians are in these areas and
that's a civilians in these areas it's a
school building it's a designated
building they would have had their GPS
the GPS even before the war of all those
schools are known to them it's an honor
property there are many many layers of
legal protection that cover that site
and it is a site that was declared by
them as a safe area for the Palestinians
to seek shelter so there is no excuse
really and particularly when when they
use the aircrafts you know the f-16s the
sort of thing that the Americans are
supplying the Ukrainian with there there
there's a major hypocrisy on in in both
fronts that uh uh the American seems to
uh pursue those conflicts without really
understanding the implication that has
on their own uh standing in in the
future with the the Ukraine I don't know
if you watched uh well you presented the
news few minutes earlier the secular
state in the same on the same Podium he
talks about having just offered Ukraine
hundred billion doar and then he
complains about Iran giving Russia
missiles and if you reverse story it's
the same thing with Gaza and and Israel
on the one hand they are supplying the
Israelis with with the with the machine
to kill the Palestinians and then he
comes out and cry for the Palestinian
victims it's in their hand to take a
moral stand on Palestine on Ukraine and
everywhere else it seems like at the
moment they're going through this vacuum
uh and misdirection and and so where do
we stand now Sultan as far as the
ceasefire talks are concerned on Gaza uh
this plan that was announced by Biden no
one seems be talking about it much
anymore is there pressure on either side
right now to to try and get this back on
track well the plan is uh sort of become
really out of date it was announced end
of May Biden then took it to the
security Council and made it literally
into international law mid of June
Palestinians accepted it the Israelis
refused it now the Israelis have created
further facts on the ground including
this Corridor in the middle of pal of
Gaza not the Philadelphia Cor
Philadelphia Corridor is an excuse for
them to stay in Gaza but the corridor
that war worries observers is the one
they created that split Gaza into two
okay and this Corridor just north of the
Turkish Hospital goes all the way from
east of Gaza to the to the Sea 4 km wide
uh Israel will never leave that part
they have now split the Gaza into two
they will not allow Palestinians to
return North without being screened by
them and they use the excuse of um
security but it's really to make the
Palestinian life even more difficult and
as soon as there is a ceasefire and
there are possibilities for the
Palestinians to make a choice I suspect
a lot of people if they have the right
if they have the ability they will seek
to move somewhere else because the area
now is totally in inhabitable Sultan
always good to get you thoughts and
insight on this thank you very much for
joining us on our ja Sultan Barakat from
hammad bin Khalifa University here in
Qatar
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from aler